# iLang Compiler Project

## Overview

iLang is a simple imperative language for which this compiler is created.

## Requirements

1. LLVM 4.0.1 - install from source is preferable, check [llvm installation guide](./LLVM_INSTALL.md) for instructions
2. C++14 compatible compiler (gcc or clang)
3. CMake 3.6+

## Installation

CMake is used as a build system. Here is the installation process:

### Linux/OS X

1. Create directory where all build files will be placed.

   ```mkdir build && cd build```

2. Generate build files, if you are missing some dependencies, cmake will fail.

   ```cmake ../src```

3. Build executable

   ```make```

4. Check that everything works by running

   ```./voc```

## Running

Right now compiler generates object code for empty function. You can check it by running:
```./voc```

## Testing

Folder test contains all necessary test scripts. Currently there are system tests, and run-tests.sh script, which is intended to run all tests. If you want to add a new type of tests, please modify run-tests.sh, so they can all be run from one place.

### System Tests

System tests are designed to determine that compiler generates correct binary from given code. You can view them as end-to-end tests. Their input is iLang source code file as well as LLVM IR Source code file. Using LLVM static compiler (llc), they verify that object file generated by the compiler is equal to one, generated by llc. 

To write these tests, you have to understand how your code will look like, once compiled. That is why it is generally advisable to write short system tests.

#### Feature Coverage

Below you can see which features are currently covered by system tests:

| Feature                  | Coverage |
|--------------------------|----------|
| Integer Operations       | True     |
| Float Operations         | True     |
| Boolean Operations       | True     |
| Function Declaration     | True     |
| Relational Operations    | False    |
| Function Call            | False    |
| Variable Declaration     | False    |
| Array Declaration        | False    |
| Record Declaration       | False    |
| Variable Assignment      | False    |
| Array Element Assignment | False    |
| Record Member Assignment | False    |
| If Statement             | False    |
| While Loop               | False    |
| For Loop                 | False    |
| Implicit Type Casts      | False    |
